downgrade(8) - downgrade arch linux packages
============================================

## SYNOPSIS

**downgrade** [OPTIONS] <PKG> [PKG...] [**\--** PACMAN OPTION...]

## DESCRIPTION

Downgrade Arch Linux packages.

## OUTPUT

Calling **downgrade** on a package will lead to the following output:

_Example:_

    -  1)  terraform    0.11.11  2  remote
    -  2)  terraform    0.11.12  1  /var/cache/pacman/pkg
    +  3)  terraform    0.11.13  1  remote
    +  4)  terraform    0.11.13  1  /var/cache/pacman/pkg
    -  5)  terraform    0.12.0   1  remote
    -  6)  terraform    0.12.0   1  /var/cache/pacman/pkg
       7)  terraform    0.12.1   1  remote

    Available packages (community):
    7/7
    >

The columns have the following meaning:

  * _indicator_:
    \- indicates that the version was previously installed.\
    \+ indicates the currently installed version.

  * _enumeration_:
    An enumeration of the entries for selection.

  * _package-name_:
    The name of the package.

  * _package-epoch_:
    The epoch of the package in cache or ALA.

  * _package-version_:
    The version of the package in cache or ALA.

  * _package-release_:
    The release of the package in cache or ALA.

  * _location_:
    Possible values: {remote|/path/to/cache/dir}

If you have already downloaded this version, it will show the cache directory
where the package is located. _remote_ indicates that the version is available
on the ALA.

## OPTIONS

  * `--pacman`=<COMMAND>:
    Pacman command, default is _pacman_.

  * `--pacman-conf`=<PATH>:
    Pacman configuration file, default is _/etc/pacman.conf_.

  * `--pacman-cache`=<PATH>:
    Pacman cache directory, default value(s) taken from pacman configuration file,
    or otherwise defaults to _/var/cache/pacman/pkg_. This option can be specified
    multiple times to indicate multiple cache directories.

  * `--pacman-log`=<PATH>:
    Pacman log file, default value is extracted from pacman configuration file, or
    otherwise defaults to _/var/log/pacman.log_.

  * `--maxdepth`=<INTEGER>:
    Maximum depth to search for cached packages, defaults to _1_.

  * `--ala-url`=<URL>:
    Location of an ALA server, default is *https://archive.archlinux.org*.

  * `--ala-only`:
    Search ALA only.

  * `--cached-only`:
    Search local cache only.

  * `--ignore`=<prompt|always|never>:
    Whether to add packages to IgnorePkg, default is _prompt_.

  * `--unignore` <PKG> [PKG...]:
    Remove packages from IgnorePkg. This is a pass-through to **pacignore(8)**.

  * `--latest` | `--oldest`:
    Never prompt for version or location, automatically pick the most up to
    date/most out of date version. Allows for noninteractive downgrades when used
    in conjunction with `--ignore`.

  * `--prefer-cache`:
    If a package matching the version filter is found in the cache, skip querying
    ala. Unlike `--cached-only`, `--prefer-cache` does query ala if no package
    could be matched in cache.

  * `--version`:
    Show downgrade version.

  * `-h`, `--help`:
    Show help script.

## CONFIGURATION FILE

Command-line options can be set persistently in
**/etc/xdg/downgrade/downgrade.conf**. Note that these options are parsed first
by **downgrade**, followed by any other command-line options provided by the
user.

## PACMAN OPTIONS

As per the usage syntax, any options supplied after the **\--** character
sequence will be treated as pacman options.

## DEFAULT BEHAVIORS

By default, **downgrade** will search both local caches and the ALA.

If only one package with its corresponding location matches, the package will be
installed without further prompt from the user.

## VERSION FILTERING

**downgrade** allows the use of the following version-filtering operators:
**=**, **==**, **=~**, **\<=**, **>=**, **\<** and **>**. Note that **=~**
represents a regex match operator and **=**/**==** are aliases.

## EXIT CODES

**downgrade** will stop further processing and exit non-zero if it encounters
any of the following scenarios for any of its arguments:

* Execution from non-root user
* No argument value(s) supplied where necessary
* No package(s) found
* Package(s) found, but an invalid selection was made
* `pacman -U` returned non-zero
* Unexpected error when handling `IgnorePkg` additions

## SEE ALSO

**pacman(8)**, **vercmp(8)**, **sudo(8)**, **pacman.conf(5)**, **find(1)**,
**su(1)**, **fzf(1)**.

## BUGS

Open a GitHub issue on *https://github.com/archlinux-downgrade/downgrade*.

## AUTHORS

* Patrick Brisbin \<pbrisbin@gmail.com>
* Atreya Shankar \<shankar.atreya@gmail.com>
